master: add tidb_enable_strict_not_null_check (#22859)
pingcap/docs: system-variables.md

- Default value: `ON`
- This variable is used to control whether to enable the statement summary feature. If enabled, SQL execution information like time consumption is recorded to the `information_schema.STATEMENTS_SUMMARY` system table to identify and troubleshoot SQL performance issues.

> ### `tidb_enable_strict_not_null_check` <span class="version-mark">New in v9.0.0</span>

Author: ```suggestion
### `tidb_enable_strict_not_null_check` <span class="version-mark">New in v8.5.7 and v9.0.0</span>
```

> ### `tidb_enable_strict_not_null_check` <span class="version-mark">New in v8.5.7 and v9.0.0</span>

Author: ```suggestion
### tidb_enable_strict_not_null_check <span class="version-mark">New in v8.5.7 and v9.0.0</span>
```

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: Yes
- Applies to hint [SET_VAR](/optimizer-hints.md#set_varvar_namevar_value): No
- Type: Boolean
- Default value: `ON`

> - This variable controls whether TiDB performs strict validation when `NULL` values are explicitly written to `NOT NULL` columns in `INSERT` statements.

Author: ```suggestion
- This variable controls whether TiDB performs strict validation when an `INSERT` statement explicitly writes a `NULL` value to a `NOT NULL` column.
```

- Possible values:
    - `ON`: Enables strict `NOT NULL` validation. This behavior is closer to MySQL 8.0 semantics.
        - In strict SQL mode, if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB returns an error.

>         - In non-strict SQL mode: for a single-row `INSERT` statement, if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB returns an error; for a multi-row `INSERT` statement, if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB downgrades the error to a warning and writes the implicit default value of the column data type.

Author: ```suggestion
        - In strict SQL mode: if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB returns an error.
        - In non-strict SQL mode: for a single-row `INSERT` statement, if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB returns an error; for a multi-row `INSERT` statement, if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB downgrades the error to a warning and writes the implicit default value of the column data type.
```

    - `OFF`: Disables strict `NOT NULL` validation for compatibility with the permissive behavior in earlier TiDB versions. When disabled, if you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB downgrades the error to a warning and writes the implicit default value for the column data type. For example, TiDB writes `0` for numeric types and an empty string `''` for string types.

> **Note:**
>

> > - Earlier TiDB versions were permissive in validating `NOT NULL` constraints. When you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB automatically writes the implicit default value of the column data type. Starting from v8.5.0, TiDB tightened this validation: even in non-strict SQL mode, inserting a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column might return an error. This behavior is closer to MySQL 8.0 semantics but might affect applications that depend on the earlier permissive behavior.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Earlier TiDB versions were permissive in validating `NOT NULL` constraints. When you insert a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column, TiDB might automatically write the implicit default value of the column data type. Starting from v8.5.0, TiDB tightened this validation: even in non-strict SQL mode, inserting a `NULL` value into a `NOT NULL` column might return an error. This behavior is closer to MySQL 8.0 semantics but might affect applications that depend on the earlier permissive behavior.
```
